What is a learners's licence?
Before you may take driving lessons on a public road, you need to prove to the authorities that you know and uderstand some basic things about
driving and about the road law. The learners's licence test is the means by which you can prove this. When you pass this test you will qualify for a learners's licence to show that you are permitted to drive on a public road, provided you are accompanied by suitably qualified and licenced driver (not applicable to motorcycles).

To pass the learners's licence test you will need to:
Know all the rules of the road;
understand the basics of the K53 defensive driving system.
know what various vehicle controls are used for(steering wheel, gears, footbrake, etc.) and
know the meanings of the road traffic siggns, signals and painted road markings, and how the driver should respond to each of them

What are the minimum age requirements fo obtaining a learner's licence?
Motorcycles 125cc or less (whitout a sidecar): 16 years of age
Light motor vehicles not more that 3 500 kg: 17 years of age
All other vehicles (including motorcycles over 125 cc): 18 years of age

What can disqualify me from obtaining a learner's licence?
If you have previously been disqualified by a court of law from driving a motor vehicle, and this disqualification is still valid.
If you already hold a valid licence to drive the same class of vehicle.
If your licence to drive has been suspended or cancelled and the suspension/cancellation period has not yet expired.
If you are suffering from one of the following deseases of disabilities:
uncontrolled epilepsy
sudden attacks of disabling giddiness or fainting due to hypertension or any other cause.
any form of mental illness to such an extent that is necessary that you be detained, supervised, controlled and treated as a patient in terms
of the Mental Health Act, 1973 (Act No. 18 of 1973)
any condition causing muscular incoordination.
uncontrolled diabetes mellitus
defective vision, determined by a prescribed standard or
any other disease of physical defect which islikely to render you incapable of driving effectivvely and controlling a moter vehicle without endangering the safety of the public (deafness is not regarded as such a defect).
If you are addicted to the use of any drug having a narcotic effect, of to the excessive use of intoxicating liquor

What will I need when I apply?
You must:
meet the minimum age requirements set out opposite.
Meet the health requirements already explained
pass the eyesight test that is conducted at the testing centre.
have acceptable identification with you when you apply (SA identity document or a passport, or a Traffic Register Certificat issued by the licencing authority) and 
have with you recent passport-size identiy photographs (black and white, or colour).

What will the learner's licence authorize me to do?
you may drive on public roads (including freeways), provided you are accompanied by someone who holds a valid driving licence for the clas of vehicle you are driving, and you is seated next you or, if that is not possible. then directly behind you.
You may carry passengers in a motor vehicle provided they do not pay a fare.
Note: A learners motorcycle driver may not carry a passenger (not even the driving instructor); you are therrefore permitted to ride unaccompanied
.

How long is a learner's licence valid for?
14 months from the date of issue.
After you've passed your learners's licence test,we suggest that you enrol for a course of at least 20 hours of formal training with a driving unsttructor and shcool that has been accredited by the Southern Africa Institute of Driving Instrucors (SAIDI). This will ensure that you learn K53 basics correctly

Practice may be with a friend or vamily memeber, but these people often teach their own bad habits through lack of understanding of the correct methods. They are certainly no substitute for lessons with an accredited instructor.

How will I be tested?
The officail theory test consists of a number of questions for which you must choose the correct answers from serveral options. This is called a multiple-choise test. At some testing centres you are able to perform the test using a computer, otherwise it is a pen-and-paper test. When you call your local traffic department to arrange a booking for your test, ask them whether they use computers or test books.

Fof the pen-and-paper test you will be given a book of questions, an answer sheet,a chart of road road signs and a book showing various road layouts as well as pictures of the controls of a vehicle.

The examiner will explain how the test is to be conducted and which section you must answer, depending on which class of vehicle you wish to drive once you have qualified. Make sure you listen vary carefully to the instructions. If you're ot sure about any aspect of the testing procedure, don't be shy to ask. there will probably be other people who need clarification too and your question to the examiner could help those candidates as well. Note, however, that once the test has commenced you may not ask questions without putting your hand up and asking the examiner quietly when he/she comes to you.

What is the pass mark in the official test?

Although the allocation of questions and pass marks may change from time to time, the test normally consists of 64 questions spread across the syllabus as follows:

									No. of questions | Pass Mark
Rules of the road                   28               | 22
Road signs, signals and markings    28               | 23
Controls of the vehicle             8                | 6

Note: The allocation of questions between the various sections may change from time to time, as well as the required pass marks.

Be sure you understand the test question 
Each question has at least three choices from which to select the correct answer. for some questions only one answer is the correct one, with others, more than one options is correct and you must specify which they are. In some questions there may be anoher option that seems correct. Choose the one that is ost correct with respect to the question. This means that you should read aach question very carefully to make sure that you fully understand exactly what is being asked. Don't skim through the question in a hurry and jump to the wrong conclusion because you did't read it carefully. 
Note you may not ask the examiner to clarify any question for you.

2 Controls of the vehicle 

Vehicle controls and instruments are items such as the steering wheel (handlebars for motorcycles), brakes, clutch pedal, accelerator pedal, speedometer, and so on. You must know what each control is used for. The following illustrations will explain these.

Note: Although the layout of the various controls may be different on different makes and models of vehicles, their functions and purpose remain the same. On some vehicles the parking brake control is a foot-operated pedal. 

Motor Vehicle controls 


